---
layout: post
title: software
tags:
- engineering
---

I'm pretty new to this game. It's been about 2 years. When people ask me how I arrived at this transition, I tell them that I was heavily inspired by learning Autocad on the job (i.e. not as a student), and by my partner, Amy Yoshitsu, who's transitioned part-time from working as a designer to design/developing. We saw an opportunity to help each other as well as possibly work together someday and it seemed too reasonable to pass up.

So, now I'm here! I was fortunate enough to experience some really unexpected interviews at great companies and ultimately accept an awesome job, made possible through hard work, connections from college, grad school, and primarily my bootcamp, and I feel motivated and excited to enter into a new profession that is constantly growing and needs more people all the time. To compare markets, when I was looking for work as a agricultural, environmental, or chemical engineer, I would see 2-3 jobs in each city, with regards to software, especially in the Bay Area, I've heard the numbers are such that for every unemployed scientist or engineer there are 5 openings as a front end, software, backend/full-stack, or data scientist, and I now work as a full-stack software engineer and built routes for a MEAN stack application! Crazy and fun and I hope to continue to grow and develop at the rapid pace which has become normal for me.

I wanted to use the space to describe a bunch of other options I've found out while attending the bootcamp and learning about opportunities at various software companies. A big job role that I'm personally very excited about is one called a Developer Advocate (or sometimes Developer Evangelist). This person is typically at a large company which exposes an API or a type of software service that other developers can use. Some companies live entirely off this, Twilio's phone APIs and Firebase database APIs are big examples, and most of Google's developer's services have Developer Advocates you can work with and call directly to troubleshoot using their services. Developer Advocates also travel and speak at conferences and booths for the software company they represent, and write code that can be used for examples and demonstrations.

There are also roles at companies and at bootcamps teaching software to others getting into the industry, high school students, and middle school students. I believe developer education will be an even bigger movement as we continue to automate and move into the age of the industrial internet, when all our devices need to communicate with each other to increase their efficiency and effectiveness.

Engineering manager is another role in most big companies, and I feel like I've been groomed for for many years, my friends in Software have told me that I have the capacity to motivate very smart people and lends itself naturally to a engineering manager role. The job of the engineering manager is to make sure turnover is low, and that engineers with very different psychologies stay motivated and work well with each other.

I'll come back with some more roles in a bit, but I have an interview in a few hours! Woo hoo!

**This is a stub, there's more coming**
