---
layout: post
title: packages
tags:
- setup
- text-editors
- packages
---

Text Editors are a heated debate amongst programmers. It really comes down to choices of willingness to learn tools. I am intriguied to try all the different text editors out and develop a feel for what makes each special, but I don't really have the time right now.

Some people in our class use VI or VIM, but most tend to use sublime text or atom text editor. I currently use Sublime, but I will transition to Atom because I know it's better and compiles over javascript, rather than python. VIM and Emacs are two storied, old text editors that are powerful and purportedly more customizable, but my general experience with it involves cursing. Also, one of my favorite ancedotes is my from my classmate Marc, who uses EMACS religiously, and told me one day that he finally got a tree directory to work in EMACS (the thing that comes by default in Atom and Sublime). **YIKES!**

Here I'm going to talk about sublime packages, I'll eventually do the same when I learn the Atom packages to use, they probably have very similar names, but here's a conceptual overview of some powerful things to install if you are starting to code.
Install right now! Even if you don't learn all the possible ways to use the packages, they benefits they provide can be immediate. If you use Sublime and have not yet installed the package manager, please head to <strong><a href="https://packagecontrol.io/">here and follow the instructions on install now</a></strong>. Browsing the packages here is a great way to know what is trending and what people find helpful.

I use sublime linter with JSlint and JShint, which is pretty much several blog posts worth of difficulty, so I will pass on describing the process, but these are all helpful so consider installing them. Be patient, as each will take 1 hour to install but is worth the struggle. After installing this, practice setting up different user accounts or save package json's with an established style guide (I use the AirBNB javascript guideline).

I use <strong><a href="https://gist.github.com/max-mykhailenko/41d0c3991d92f38dcbc6">emmet</a></strong> for HTML quick editing. I will eventually set up a short mini tutorial of some of my favorite emmet tricks here.

I use <strong><a href="https://packagecontrol.io/packages/GitGutter"> Git Gutter </a> </strong>to help me keep track of my changes visually.

I use a <strong><a href-"http://jdlawrence.github.io/javascript/closures/2015/08/03/console-inside-sublime-text.html">sublime build tool </a></strong>, that my friend Jamil help me install to help me with my algorithmic problems.

I use a <strong><a href="https://packagecontrol.io/packages/BracketHighlighter">bracket matching </a></strong> tool to help me keep track of the (), {}, and [].

I use <strong><a href="http://colorsublime.com/">color sublime</a></strong>, which keeps me from going crazy with the boring color pallette of text editing.

I use the a <strong><a href="http://logicmason.com/2013/strip-trailing-whitespace-every-time-you-save-a-file-in-sublime-text/"> white space removal </a></strong> tool I found at logic mason's website. Be sure to remove this setting from the markdown and other languages you use specific section of your sublime text, as white space is critically important in markdown and other languages.

**Add pictures**

**This is a stub... there's more to come**
