---
layout: post
title: Get Faster!
---
The Command Key (⌘) & Shortcuts and Development tools.

As someone who has come into having experience coding for a few years typically gives you the ability to look for similar patterns and also encourages you to develop preferences, keyboard shortcuts, and other functions to increase efficiency and help you code at a faster rate. To get faster, I've begun to take serious note on typing, keyboard-based access software, text editors, and plugins within these editors, and other keyboard shortcuts that help other programmers type quickly and work faster. When starting out, new programmers are overwhelmed with the large amount of programming information they have to learn they neglect to work on the tools of coding, to explore creating items within their bash profile and using keyboard shortcuts. I would like to strongly advise against that here. **ADD A SHORTCUT KEY OR PROFILE FUNCTION TO YOUR ARSENAL DAILY.** Not only does filling your bash profile with custom functions that loop together actions you use everyday help you work faster, they help you really start to understand what your computer does and that will make you a better programmer and also help you develop a personal style of working. Here I will detail all the things I have learned to do or add to my programs to increase efficiency and have more fun while programming.

OSX and Linux based machines (POSIX based machines) have a program called terminal which if you don't have on the dock, you should consider adding. Windows uses a command prompt to do similar tasks. This program can access the internet and create and move files and folders onto your computer and run programs. I would advise learning about your particular terminal software, and if you use an extension such as ITerm2, to know how many different bash profiles you have and write your own functions and aliases, which I will go over below. These are files that are run immediately when ever you open a terminal, thus giving your permanent access to a bunch of shortcuts that can run commands to help you use github, to open local servers, and eventually run your automated tasks.

One method for getting faster is to open your bash profile. This can be done by typing ls -a in your ~ folder.